---
layout: post
title:  "The Setup"
date:   2016-05-27 15:30:00 -0400 
categories: 
tags: 
- rpg
- fate
- play report
- the relics of acyrus
---
So this is the first of my actual play reports and this campaign is the only 
campaign I have ever run (as of writing this). So there are definitely some things 
I have done wrong and things that I will improve on over the course of it. I am 
looking to point out those flaws though so that others can learn from them. Anyway, 
in this post, I am only going to talk about the setup.<!--more-->

## Game Creation

The campaign started in Jan. 2016 if I remember correctly, and the group is made up 
of my wife, Meghan, and our friends Carl, Andy, and James. They weren't used to 
setting creation, and I wasn't great at facilitating it either, so we basically
decided to play in a fantasy/D&D setting. I came up with the issues later based on 
the characters.

## The Stars

### Aurora
Played by: **Meghan** 

Aurora is an elven ranger that now lives in the Whispering Woods. Once a princess, 
she ran away from home for reasons unknown to the rest of the group. She has been 
living in the woods for some time, befriended some animals, and stealthily thwarted 
robberies and goblin raids. She tends to stay to herself, unsure if she can trust 
anyone. 

### Desmond

Played by: **Carl**

Desmond is a human grad-student wizard who was magically teleported to this 
unknown land by a mysterious artifact. Unaware its powers, he carries it with him
in hopes that he can unlock the ability to return home. Desmond is a bit on the 
selfish side and his hunger for power is what got him into this mess in the first
place. Aurora found Desmond shortly after he was teleported and took him in. Now 
they work together to protect the forest while Desmond continues to search for 
answers about his artifact.

### Eb Armul

Played by: **James**

Eb is a Dwarven Monk who has always hated ale because it makes him break out. 
Also having a dislike for metal weapons, he didn't fit in much around the dwarven
town he grew up in. He spoke out against weapons and ale one too many times in his
home tavern and was driven away. That's when he found the Power of Temperance, a 
group of monks that had similar views. He trained with them and later ran into 
Filius when trying to speak out against ale at a tavern above ground. Filius 
defused the situation with his charm and has been a friend of Eb's ever since.

### Filius Millywinkle
Played by: **Andy**

Filius is a Gnome Bard from the town of Stonehollow, a gnome town under the Gilgax 
Mountains. When he was young, goblins attacked the town, and though he was not 
very good with a blade, he did what he could to fight them off. Aurora heard of the
attack and quickly jumped into the fray as well. The two of them, with the help of 
the Stonehollow guards, they managed to drive off the goblins. Aurora quickly left 
the scene before anyone realized her true identity, but Filius, having fought along 
side her, wrote a song about the glorious battle. This song became famous in the 
Gilgax region and so did he.

<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/2016/05/27/session-00.html" class="right">Next Session &#9654;</a>
<br />
